---
title: "syslog-ng 3.5.1 released"
date: 2013-11-06 10:00
tags: [News, syslog-ng]
---

I'm proud to announce - two days later on this blog - the result of
about eight months of development [syslog-ng][sng] version
[3.5.1][351-release]! This is the first stable release from the 3.5
branch, the successor of the 3.3 branch, which was originally released
earlier this year, in February. This is the second time I oversee a
first major release, but it still feels intimidating. Although, this
time it went much smoother than the last time. The 3.5.1 release is
also very interesting for a number of reasons: not only do we have
very interesting features, we also have more code contributed by the
community, a succesful merge of a GSoC project, and a faster
development cycle to boot!

 [sng]: http://www.balabit.com/network-security/syslog-ng/opensource-logging-system/overview
 [351-release]: https://lists.balabit.hu/pipermail/syslog-ng-announce/2013-November/000174.html

I already wrote an [article about upcoming features][cooking], so I
will not go into detail about the features already mentioned there.
Nevertheless, the list of new things is fairly long:
[multi-line support][cooking:ml], [STOMP destination][cooking:stomp],
[Redis destination](#f:redis),
[template type-hinting][cooking:type-hinting],
[unit suffixes in the config][cooking:unit-suffix],
[new template functions][cooking:template-funcs], and the existence of
the [Incubator project][incubator].

 [cooking]: /blog/2013/09/05/what-is-cooking-in-syslog-ng-3.5/
 [cooking:ml]: /blog/2013/09/05/what-is-cooking-in-syslog-ng-3.5/#f:multiline
 [cooking:stomp]: /blog/2013/09/05/what-is-cooking-in-syslog-ng-3.5/#f:new-dests
 [cooking:type-hinting]: /blog/2013/09/05/what-is-cooking-in-syslog-ng-3.5/#f:type-hinting
 [cooking:unit-suffix]: /blog/2013/09/05/what-is-cooking-in-syslog-ng-3.5/#f:unit-suffix
 [cooking:template-funcs]: /blog/2013/09/05/what-is-cooking-in-syslog-ng-3.5/#f:template-funcs
 [incubator]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-incubator

<!-- more -->

Of course, not everything was documented in the previous post, the
[redis destination](#f:redis) was not merged yet at the time, and the
Riemann destination ended up being part of the [Incubator][incubator]
instead of the master tree. Lets look at Redis, and then some nice
numbers afterwards!

 [incubator]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-incubator

## <a name="f:redis" href="#f:redis">Redis destination</a>

Developed during the [Google Summer of Code 2013][gsoc2013] program,
this destination driver makes it possible to easily send commands to a
[Redis server](http://redis.io/), an advanced key-value store (or data
structure server). Using it is fairly simple:

 [gsoc2013]: http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/project/google/gsoc2013/tichy/27001

<pre>redis(
 host("localhost")
 port(6369)

 command("HINCRBY", "hosts", "$HOST", 1)
);</pre>

## The Incubator project

The syslog-ng module incubator (Incubator henceforth) is a collection
of tools and modules for syslog-ng that for one reason or the other,
are not part of the official repository. This serves both as a staging
ground for experimental modules, and as a repository of plugins that
are not aimed at upstream inclusion. It's also an example of a third
party syslog-ng module.

## Contributors!

Compared to the [first commit on the 3.5 branch][3.5-first], a total
of **346** patches have been committed, producing the following
diffstat:

>  372 files changed, 17948 insertions(+), 8396 deletions(-)

That's half the pathces and half the lines modified than in the 3.4
development cycle, which, I believe is a good thing. Faster, smaller,
more stable releases are good for everybody.

I would hereby like to thank all the people who contributed to
syslog-ng's development in one form or another, be that patches, bug
reports, testing or anything else: Fabien Wernli, Balazs Scheidler,
Peter Gyongyosi, Cy Schubert, Andras Tim, Peter Czanik, Lucas McLane,
Martin, Paul Dann, Michal Privoznik, Attila Nagy, Gonzalo Paniagua,
Marc Falzon, Sergey Shuman, Attila Szalay, Anton Koldaev, Attila M.
Magyar, Tamas Pal, Alexandre Biancalana, Nicolas Szalay, Michael
Sterrett, Vincent Brillault, Laszlo Budai, Evan Rempel, Tibor Benke,
Robert Fekete, Balint Kovacs, Valentijn Sessink, Chris Johnson, Ryan
Frederick, Oscar Muñoz, Viktor Juhasz, Viktor Tusa, Tihamer Petrovics,
Jose Pedro Oliveira, and everyone else I may have forgotten (sorry!)

 [3.5-first]: https://github.com/balabit/syslog-ng-3.5/commit/945c11d7b8221c52ec1af74a0ae1fb86f112f86d
